Walk them back before we code our own binary search tree let's just go over the performance implications
and why we might want to use it over other data structures.
Its strengths are that it has really good performance across the board.
You saw that most operations or all operations in a binary search tree are better than 0.
Event assuming that the binary search tree is ballsed.
It is also ordered and because we can place the node anywhere in memory we can just have flexible size.
We can keep growing our tree.
The downside is that as you may have noticed it has no 0 1 operation.
We usually have to do some sort of traversal through the tree for any sort of operation so compared
to an array a look up for example will be a lot faster because we have all log n for searches vs. if
we iterate through an entire array if the array is unsorted inserts and deletes are also faster the
narrower array unless the array is adding to the end.
Otherwise arrays have to shift all the indexes vs a binary search tree.
That is just 0 of log in what about compared to hash tables.
Well although hash tables allow us to insert and search at constant time with binary search trees we
have sorted data and we also have this structure of parent child relationship that you won't be able
to get to much with hash tables a good thing to keep in mind is that binary search trees aren't the
fastest for anything.
Remember their operations are usually always 0 of log and on average an array or an object will have
faster operation.
But there are certain conditions where they do perform objects and arrays so binary search trees do
perform really well.
As long as you make sure that you stay away from the cases that we discussed and we balance our binary
search tree but enough talk enough slides I think to fully grasp and understand how trees work.
We should code our own.
I'll see in the next one.